README.md, before:

# CLI to expose containers/image fetching via HTTP

This is a small CLI program which vendors the
[containers/image](https://github.com/containers/image/) Go library
and exposes a HTTP API to fetch manifests and blobs.

Eventually, this should probably be folded into [containers/skopeo](https://github.com/containers/skopeo/)
but for now we'll iterate here.

# Why?

First, assume one is operating on a codebase that isn't Go, but wants
to interact with container images - we can't just include the Go containers/image
library.

The primary intended use case of this is for things like
[ostree-containers](https://github.com/ostreedev/ostree-rs-ext/issues/18)
where we're using container images to encapsulate host operating system
updates, but we don't want to involve the [containers/image](github.com/containers/image/)
storage layer.

What we *do* want from the containers/image library is support for things like
signatures and offline mirroring.  More on this below.

Forgetting things like ostree exist for a second - imagine that you wanted to 
encapsulate a set of Debian/RPM/etc packages inside
a container image to ship for package-based operating systems.  You could use this to stream
out the layer containing those packages and extract them directly, rather than serializing
everything to disk in the containers/storage disk location, only to copy it out again and delete the first.

Another theoretical use case could be something like [krustlet](https://github.com/deislabs/krustlet),
which fetches WebAssembly blobs inside containers.  Here again, we don't want to involve
containers/storage.

# Desired containers/image features

There are e.g. Rust libraries like [dkregistry-rs](https://github.com/camallo/dkregistry-rs), and
similar for other languages.  However, the containers/image Go library has a lot of additional infrastructure
that will impose a maintenance burden to replicate:

 - Signatures (`man containers-auth.json`)
 - Mirroring/renaming (`man containers-registries.conf`)
 - Support for `~/.docker/config.json` for authentication as well as `/run`

# Status

We have a 0.1 release that works.  However, in the future this will hopefully
move into [skopeo](https://github.com/containers/skopeo/).

# Usage

The intended production use of this is:

- Parent process creates a [socketpair](https://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man2/socketpair.2.html) (e.g. [Rust tokio](https://docs.rs/tokio/1.12.0/tokio/net/struct.UnixStream.html#method.pair))
- Parent passes one half of socketpair to child via e.g. fd 3 - `container-image-proxy --sockfd 3 docker://quay.io/cgwalters/exampleos:latest`
- Parent makes HTTP (1.1) requests on its half of the socketpair

# APIs

### `GET /manifest`

Returns the manifest converted into OCI format, plus the original manifest digest in a
`Manifest-Digest` header.

At the moment, when presented with an [image index](https://github.com/opencontainers/image-spec/blob/main/image-index.md)
AKA "manifest list", this request will choose the image matching the current operating system and processor.

### `GET /blobs/<digest>`

Fetch a blob as is - no decompression is performed if relevant.
The digest will be verified.

## Python demo code

See [demo.py](demo.py).

Commit message:

Handle errors initializing image, add a `/quit` API
Switch to lazy initialization, so we can properly propagate
an error on basic things like non-existent images.

Further, add an explicit `/quit` API which helps do a graceful
shutdown and ensure we're checking errors.

README.md, after:

# CLI to expose containers/image fetching via HTTP

This is a small CLI program which vendors the
[containers/image](https://github.com/containers/image/) Go library
and exposes a HTTP API to fetch manifests and blobs.

Eventually, this should probably be folded into [containers/skopeo](https://github.com/containers/skopeo/)
but for now we'll iterate here.

# Why?

First, assume one is operating on a codebase that isn't Go, but wants
to interact with container images - we can't just include the Go containers/image
library.

The primary intended use case of this is for things like
[ostree-containers](https://github.com/ostreedev/ostree-rs-ext/issues/18)
where we're using container images to encapsulate host operating system
updates, but we don't want to involve the [containers/image](github.com/containers/image/)
storage layer.

What we *do* want from the containers/image library is support for things like
signatures and offline mirroring.  More on this below.

Forgetting things like ostree exist for a second - imagine that you wanted to 
encapsulate a set of Debian/RPM/etc packages inside
a container image to ship for package-based operating systems.  You could use this to stream
out the layer containing those packages and extract them directly, rather than serializing
everything to disk in the containers/storage disk location, only to copy it out again and delete the first.

Another theoretical use case could be something like [krustlet](https://github.com/deislabs/krustlet),
which fetches WebAssembly blobs inside containers.  Here again, we don't want to involve
containers/storage.

# Desired containers/image features

There are e.g. Rust libraries like [dkregistry-rs](https://github.com/camallo/dkregistry-rs), and
similar for other languages.  However, the containers/image Go library has a lot of additional infrastructure
that will impose a maintenance burden to replicate:

 - Signatures (`man containers-auth.json`)
 - Mirroring/renaming (`man containers-registries.conf`)
 - Support for `~/.docker/config.json` for authentication as well as `/run`

# Status

We have a 0.1 release that works.  However, in the future this will hopefully
move into [skopeo](https://github.com/containers/skopeo/).

# Usage

The intended production use of this is:

- Parent process creates a [socketpair](https://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man2/socketpair.2.html) (e.g. [Rust tokio](https://docs.rs/tokio/1.12.0/tokio/net/struct.UnixStream.html#method.pair))
- Parent passes one half of socketpair to child via e.g. fd 3 - `container-image-proxy --sockfd 3 docker://quay.io/cgwalters/exampleos:latest`
- Parent makes HTTP (1.1) requests on its half of the socketpair

# APIs

### `GET /manifest`

Returns the manifest converted into OCI format, plus the original manifest digest in a
`Manifest-Digest` header.

At the moment, when presented with an [image index](https://github.com/opencontainers/image-spec/blob/main/image-index.md)
AKA "manifest list", this request will choose the image matching the current operating system and processor.

### `GET /blobs/<digest>`

Fetch a blob as is - no decompression is performed if relevant.
The digest will be verified.

### POST `/quit`

Gracefully shut down the server and exit the process.

## Python demo code

See [demo.py](demo.py).
